No I disabled lynching here so they don't have all these warnings and errors regarding code style.
Of course you can adjust your code to follow that style.
That's a personal preference in the end.
Now what I want to do here is I want to show you how you can of course change that code but then also
how we could add a native functionality in such a vanilla react native app.
So for that all first of all simplify this starting app a lot.
Just get rid of all that content here and just add a basic style set up here with Flex 1 justify content
Center and the line items center to center my content on the screen.
Get rid of this thing here.
And from all these imports here I want to use the style sheet I want to use the view and I want to as
use the button because what I want to add is the image picker functionality.
So here I return my view.
And my button and on the button I say take image.
And then on press I want to open the image picker.
Now how can we add this.
Now since this is a risk native project without expo in any way we can't easily use the expo API is
here.
There actually is a way of using them and I'll come back to that later in this module.
But you would need to configure a couple things so therefore what we can do instead is we can do something
which you will do a lot if you're working with a vanilla react native app.
We search for React Native which picker for example to find a package that helps us with that.
For example this one there React Native image picker package.
And now we can install this because now we can bring any third party package no matter if it adds native
functionalities or not in your app previously with Expo this was not really possible theories you could
only bring third party packages that did not tap into native device features.
Now you got no restrictions.
So now we can add this.
And here we can install this by following the installation structures here so by going back into our
project in India by running npm install dash dash save and then here it's React Native image picker
like this by the way you can keep this process you're running and you should.
So that code changes once you save your files are picked up and pushed to your devices.
So let's wait for this installation to finish now.
Now it's done.
Took quite a while.
And now we need to install this and do it.
Thing is this package is very easy to install.
You should only need to run this command here.
React Native link React Native image picker.
So run this in your project.
Like this and you should be good.
Now I will say there are third party packages that take more effort.
It really depends on the package for Expo.
It obviously was very easy you just ran Expo install that was very fast.
Didn't take that long and you didn't need to do anything else.
Here you need to run one extra command.
But of course that's also not too bad.
But again I will say not all packages support this command.
Some packages require way more manual wire up work manual work where you don't actually need to dive
into the Android and Iow folders to start working on some configuration files there.
That's what you rack native link command did for you for example on Android if you dive into the app
folder and their source and then in the source folder into built cradle you will see that there
this line was added.
This wasn't there from the beginning.
This was added by the react native link command.
And for some packages you have to add these entries manually.
A lot of packages support you link command and with more recent versions of React Native.
Some packages even support auto linking where does linking will be done automatically once installation
finished but not all packages have that support so that's something to be aware of.
Behind the scenes a lot of configuration was changed with that we can now use this package again as
instructed in their docs so we can add this import here here.
Then also add the pic image function your maybe it maybe and connect dad to our button
and now here image picker works a bit differently than the expo one.
Here we call image picture show image picker with options which we can set up.
Options are configured as described up here or described in the docs in general and here I will just
grab this entire code here like this.
Copy that into the pic image function.
Get rid of this sad state called.
We're not in a class based components so that's not something we can do.
Instead here in the office block I'll just console log.
De response Uri which should be the pop of the image.
Which was taken.
And then we've got a couple of handlers for different scenarios here and with that let's see where that
works.
If we save this
normally it should rebuild here.
But due to our new package installed I will quit this process and rerun React Native run Android here.
Now in my terminal integrated into visual pseudocode and therefore in this project folder and now it
is will bring up is development server again and more importantly it will then all the relaunched the
app on the emulator so that we hopefully can see it there and can test the image pictured here.
So let's wait for that to finish for the build process to finish.
Now here's the app coming up and if I press it I get this overlay I can click take photo and nothing
happens.
Reason for that is missing permissions and that's the manual work I meant we have to go into the Android
folder there into source main Android manifest which configure the Android app and there you have to
add a new permission you can copy does internet permission which you'll always need for the Android
app to communicate to do with development server and they are you can now add the camera permission
which you need to add for this app to be able to access the device camera otherwise this is not supported.
So now we can rerun this process rebuild the application and make sure that we take this new setting
into account and with that we should now be able to open this.
So again it's an additional setup which we didn't need to do in the Expo world of course.
On ISIS by the way you also need to do something similar whilst is rebuilt there.
If you go into your right at our end without expert file you find the info list file and in that file
you also need to add an entry to ask for does permission
you need to add a new key here after an existing key value pair the exact position doesn't matter and
you'll find detailed instructions on your official docs if that package they're under installed doc.
If you click there you'll find instructions regarding which permissions need to be set for Android.
I also forgot one.
We need to set this external storage permission as well as let me go back to the Android manifest.
Add this here and now rerun this on Android and for I was there.
You need to set these keys here to copy all of that.
And then go back to the IP list file I showed you here and now you can add these key value pairs here
with that.
Let's check the app on Android have enough.
And if I now click on take photo now I'm asked for permission here.
This now happens automatically the package does that for us.
And now the camera opens up so this now works.
But as you saw with a little bit of extra configuration and by following the instructions on the official
docs and every package will have its own instructions there some packages don't even support you link
command.
There you need to do even more.
Our packages require less work you have more flexibility but therefore all the more duties.
This however is how you can bring third party packages that tap into native device features to react
native only app for your component code which you write.
That's the same code we rolled throughout the entire course.
Same components same logic same way of how you build your app you can create the same folders you can
add react navigation Dad all doesn't change.